# Timeline-Page
## Overview
This project visualizes data entered via the mission log (see [Hawk Log](https://github.com/karski/Hawk-Log)) on a timeline.  The page makes use of a flexbox grid layout to prevent events from overlapping while making the most use of the space on the display.
## Iterations
The timeline page has gone through several iterations (and I was not using git at the time to cleanly manage version control) that can be seen in the files and folder structure.  Each version used a different method to collect the query data.  The progression of focus is described below:
1. **AJAX SharePoint Query:** (Pre-Worker Copy) The timeline page started out collecting log data from a SharePoint site where the data was stored in SharePoint tables.  Only a single query was made in order to display the sortie information, start and end times.  After the sortie data was collected, queries were made in series for each sortie to gather the station information, start and end times.  This version laid the groundwork for the timeline formatting and the functionality for collecting data from SharePoint.
2. **Web Worker Multitasking:** (worker copy) Collecting the station information for each sortie one at a time was time consuming and led to the page visibly "rebuilding" itself after each refresh.  To reduce the time spent waiting for query responses, I parallelized the requests using a web worker to collect all the station information for every sortie simultaneously.
3. **Fetch with PHP API:** The current version in the main directory uses the fetch command to send several asynchronous requests simultaneously and tracks their completion with a promise list.  This allows drawing to delay until all data is collected while also taking advantage of parallel requests.  At this point, the log data had been moved off SharePoint to a SQL Server database, so a PHP API was also required to complete the queries.  This PHP code can be found in the API folder.
